Transcript 01

P: Today is ____. We are doing session 4. Is that right?
C: Yeah
P: Session 4. CBSST. Social skills training. This is GPxxx with [name]. Okay. What page is that on there?
C: [unintelligible]
P: Okay. Making positive requests. Is that right? Session 4?
C: Uh hum.
P: Okay. So, um, what do we do first? Set an agenda?
C: Yeah. We read this. I read this.
P: Uh hum. You¡¯re gonna to review your at-home practice. We¡¯re gunna review prior communication skills. We¡¯re gonna learn making positive requests. Uh, talk about at-home practice and then do you want to add anything to the agenda?
C: No
P: [unintelligible] palm pilot. Was that something we were supposed to talk about?
C: Oh, no. It, it, it, it, it¡­I had that with somebody else.
P: Uh huh.
C: [unintelligible] looks for it.
P: You gave it back already? 
C: Yeah.
P. Okay. We don¡¯t need to discuss that then?
C: No.
P: Alright. So, let¡¯s review the at-home practice. We¡¯re you able to complete it?
C: Yeah.
P: Okay. Let¡¯s review what you did.
C: Okay. Describe situation. What you are going to practice skills. Who will be there? When will it take place? Where will you be? What will you be doing? What did you see? Okay. Me and [name] walking to the trolley station from the library.
P: Okay. So, who will be there will be [name].
C: Uh huh
P: Um. When will it take place?
C: In the daytime.
P: In the day and where will you be?
C: At the library.
P: And you¡¯ll be walking to the trolley?
C: Yeah. The trolley station.
P: Okay. What¡¯s the next part?
C: Okay. Um. My thoughts are expectations before practicing the skills. [unintelligible ¨C background noise] I told [name] about the practice so we did it couple, couple¡­it was funny to me and Ivan.
P: Okay. Your thoughts and expectations before practicing the skill. So, um, what were you thinking will happen, um, with that, when you were walking to the bus stop with [name]?
C: That I won¡¯t learn this one right away.
P: You won¡¯t learn it right away?
C: Uh mmm.
P: Okay. Uh, what reactions were you expecting from [name]?
C: That he was going to laugh.
P: That he was going to laugh at you? So, let¡¯s see. Thoughts or expectations before practicing the skill. What will happen when I practice the skill. You said what will happen ¡°I won¡¯t get it?¡±
C: Yeah.
P: I won¡¯t get it. Okay. And then you said he will laugh.
C: Was laughing now.
P: He will laugh or he was because it was supposed to be
C: He will laugh.
P: Okay. He will laugh. Alright. Okay. And then how will you do?
C: How will I do what?
P: And where it says on that below that where it says how will I do you have to rate yourself? 
C: Oh. I put it a 7.
P: Oh.
C: I put it a 7.
P: So, you thought you were going to do pretty well?
C: Mm humm
P: Pretty decently. Okay. Um. The priority communication behavior you were going to practice. What were you going to practice?
C: The voice volume.
P: Okay. So, what does that mean?
C: It means I have so speak up.
P: Okay. Okay. And what were you going to say or do? Express a positive feelings skill. So, there¡¯s three there: maintain eye contact¡­
C: Yeah. Maintain¡­say¡­thoughts to say to whether the people say it.
P: Yeah. Expressing a positive feeling of like the, about the person.
C: What?
P: We¡¯re on, uh, the next box over right here. So, it says express a positive feeling skill. What am I going to say or do? The three steps for expressing positive feelings. So, these are the three steps: maintain eye contact, say exactly what the person did that pleased you, and say how it made you feel.
C: But when we are walking we can¡¯t make eye contact.
P: Okay. You can¡¯t maintain it.
C: Uh huh.
P: Yeah, because you have to see what¡¯s in front of you. Okay. What about the second one? 
C: And the second one we just lied to each other. Say ¡°Oh, yeah. It¡¯s okay, it¡¯s okay. Yeah, we did a good job.
P: You did say that to him?
C: Him said that to me. He say ¡°you did a good job, you did a good job.¡±
P. Okay.
C: But, he didn¡¯t know what it was for.
P: Why do you think it was a lie that you really didn¡¯t do a good job?
C: Cause I told him I said ¡° You just saying that, you just saying that?¡± ¡°I¡¯m just saying that to make you feel good.¡±
P: He say that?
C: Uh mmm.
P: He said, ¡°I¡¯m just saying this to make you feel good? 
C: Yeah.
P: Why would he be doing that?
C: Cause I told him what this, what this, this homework I have¡­
P: Uh huh
C: He said, ¡°Okay, I¡¯ll help you, but I just said it cause you are going to right it down.¡±
P: Mmmm. Okay. And this one says ¡°say exactly what the person did that pleased you.¡± So, did you tell him something that pleased you?
C: Oh, I told him that, um, we did a good job on my homework.
P: Okay. That¡¯s good. And then did you say how it would make you feel?
C: Yeah. Told that you¡¯ll lie and make me feel like you are lying to me.
P: You told him maybe feel like¡­so, doing the homework assignment you told him it made you feel like he was lying to you?
C: Uh mmm.
P: And how did he respond to that?
C: He said, well, I did what you told me to do. Listen.
P: He was just listening. Did you want him to do more than listen?
C: No, that¡¯s all.
P: But, it still made you feel¡­how did it make you feel?
C: Uncomfortable.
P: Uncomfortable? Kind of forced?
C: Mm mmm
P: Not natural?
C: Yes
P: Do you think that over time with the more practice it will feel more comfortable?
C: Yeah.
P: Yeah. Okay. So, thoughts and reactions after practicing the skill. Did anything get in the way of practicing the skill? Were my thoughts or expectations before the skill accurate?
C: Okay. What I have a problem with saying is that what the person did that pleased me.
P: Uh mmm. What do you think that is?
C: Cause he said he was lying to me.
P: Humm. Okay. So, let me try, I want to try to understand. So, you guys were walking together to¡­from the library to the trolley and you told him¡­
C: That this is my homework. 
P: That you had to do your homework.
C: Uh huh. So I let him look at this book.
P: Oh, so you showed him the book while you were walking?
C: Uh hum.
P: Okay. And then and then¡­what?
C: He said, ¡°So, that¡¯s easy, that¡¯s easy, just have to do this, do this. Did you even learn it in school? No. 
P: Hmmm
C: This is common sense.
P: Oh. That doesn¡¯t make you feel very good. Huh?
C: No
P: Is [name] a peer of yours? A friend?
C: No, I met him at, at, at the, um, at the meeting.
P: Oh, he goes to the meetings with you?
C: Yeah.
P: Okay. So, he¡¯s kind of laughing at you. Making you feel stupid it sounds like.
C: Hmm
P: Okay. I think, uh, see where it says say exactly what the person did that please you, but also to be able to say that it doesn¡¯t make you feel very good for him to be laughing. Do you think you can do that?
C: Do what?
P: When, when [name] was saying all this was common sense, or I learned this when younger, whatever he said. Could you say back to him¡­what do you think would be a way to communicate that he isn¡¯t making you feel very good?
C: Ooohh. Say I didn¡¯t learn that in school. 
P: Uh mmm
C: So, yeah, that tell him that I¡¯m looking at what he is doing so I can try to copy.
P: So you can try to copy or learn?
C: Copy. Copy. Learn him. Learn it from him.
P: Uh mmm. So, maybe next time you could ask him to, uh¡­
C: Tell what to do.
P: Yeah and to not make you feel like you don¡¯t understand. Right?
C: But, I didn¡¯t.
P: Yeah. Did you feel like he was making fun of you?
C: Yeah.
P: That doesn¡¯t make you feel very good, does it?
C: Uh uh.
P: So, can you express that to him so that he knows not to make fun of you?
C: Yeah. I¡¯ll just tell him you aren¡¯t going to make me that homework with me no more if you laugh at me. 
P: Yeah. Tell him you want to learn. Okay. Okay. So, your thoughts or reactions after practicing the skill. So, that kind of sounds like it got in the way. Um. Do you think anything got in the way of practicing the skill?
C: His laughing.
P: His laughing? Yeah. Were my thoughts or expectations before I practiced the skill accurate? So, you said you won¡¯t get it and he will laugh. It does kind of sound like that is what happened, huh?
C: Mm mmm
P: Why did you expect that was going to happen?
C: Cause he look at me real funny. That you still doing this? Kind of work. So, I didn¡¯t grow up like you.
P: Uh mm. He wasn¡¯t being very sensitive to you.
C: Uh huh
P: Yeah. Sometimes it helps to explain to people so they can understand you better.
C: Then he said ¡°anyway.¡± That¡¯s what he said.
P: Anyway.
C: Anyways.
P: Ok so it says here, how did you do? What did you put in for that part bottom part?
C: Ok, it went good. I have to keep practicing. 
P: So even though you felt like [name] wasn¡¯t helping you too much, you still feel like the exercise went well. Huh?
C: Yea
P: Well, that¡¯s good
C: Yea listen to it
P: You completed it?
C: Yea
C: So next time he knows not to laugh and to help me. 
P: yea. What can you do to  improve on the skill next time?
C: Make sure we¡¯re sitting down and I can have eye contact with him. 
P: mhmm
C: Tell him what I feel
P: mhmm
C: and tell him if it is ok with me or not.
P: mhmm
P: That¡¯s good. That¡¯s a very good point. Sit down next time maybe, that way he can really understand that it doesn¡¯t feel very good if he is laughing.
C: mmmmhm
P: Umm. Did you do better than you though you would do?
C: Yes
P: That¡¯s good. Why do you think that is?
C: cause I finished this
P: you didn¡¯t think you were gonna be able to finish it?
C: mhmm
P: Ok¡­. So maybe if you think you will succeed then you will.
C: Yes
P: Ok. Anything you want to talk about with the HW? Ummm Or at home practice? Was it helpful?
C: Yea. It was. I didn¡¯t know how to communicate. I still don¡¯t so. But¡­
P: You don¡¯t know how to communicate at all?
C: I do.. what, what, what, I don¡¯t know what to start
P: uhuh. Seems like you¡¯re learning a lot though. 
C: Yea
P: I am pretty impressed with how far you¡¯ve come. You really have come a long way. So hopefully we can continue to practice that and develop those skills so you feel comfortable and confident when you start, when you start communicating with people
C: That¡¯s what I tell myself. Because the the the the the, to learn what to say¡­ 
P: Yea. well, you¡¯re are very friendly and easy to talk to. 
C: that¡¯s it. I don¡¯t know how to respond. 
P: well that¡¯s ok. We can. Do you think?
C: I say ok, ok, ok, that¡¯s it. 
P: Do you think you can learn?
C: yea
P: good. As long as you¡¯re willing. Ok so lets talk about making positive requests. Making a positive request is asking someone to do something that would help you achieve your goals and feel good. Everyone needs to ask others for help and sometimes we just want to ask someone to do something fun with us to make us feel good. If we learn to make positive requests well, we are more likely to get others to help us and do fun activities with us. It can sometimes feel uncomfortable to ask others to do things for us, that¡¯s what kinda like what you were saying
C: uhuh
P: it feels uncomfortable. 
C: uhmm
P: because we might not know how to say it or we may be concerned about how someone will react. You may have thoughts like ¡° they were just saying no, or they don¡¯t care about me, like me or they might get mad.¡± 
C: yea, mhmm, yea
P: Does that seem like¡­?
C: mhmm, I feel like I¡¯m just taking up time
P: mhmm. Well in this session you will learn how to make positive requests and how to correct those helpful thoughts that get in the way of making them. So making positive requests skill. One of the ways is maintain eye contact, another way is to say exactly what you want the other person to do and say how it would make you feel. So Tips on making positive requests: While making a request, use phrases like ¡° I would like you to blank.¡± What would you say there?
C: I would like you to help me?
P: ok, that¡¯s good. See how on number two it says say exactly what you want the other person to do?
C: mhm
P: when you say help me, that can be very vague. You see what I mean?
C: mhmm
P: Cause help is very broad, it can mean a lot of things. So what could you ask specifically? I would like you to help me¡­
C: help me read?
P: Read. Ok. Good. Exactly. Then that way you have uhhh a specific request you are making somebody and I would really appreciate it if you would do blank.
C: Turn off the light. 
P: Turn off the light. Yea. See how¡­ tell me which one sounds better. Turn off the light or I would appreciate it if you turned off the light?
C: Uh the second one.
P: Yea. So making a positive request, being polite.
C: How about. Could you say ¡° Could you?¡±
P: yea, ¡°could you?¡± yea, that¡¯s good.
C: Could you please? Huh? Please. 
P: that¡¯s good. Really good. Is, its very important to me that blank.
C: help with my homework 
P: good. So maybe next time you talk to Ivan, you can use that one. 
C: yea
P: it is very important to you. When somebody knows that its important to you and they care about you they are more likely to help. 
C: Like, I will say, ¡°Could you help me with my homework?¡± 
P: mhmm, its true. Lets practice this important skill. Here is an example. Role play the script that shows how the skill can be included in a conversation. So it¡¯s a role play making a positive request. So ill be the first on the left side and you be the response, ok? 
P: so hello, how are you today?
C: I¡¯m doing very well, thank you. How about yourself?
P: I am doing fine, thanks for asking. I would really like you to have lunch with me. It would make me happy to catch up. 
C: That sounds like a great idea. Are you available today tomorrow?
P: yes tomorrow is a good day. How about noon?
C: Great, I will come by at noon
P: Alright, so that¡¯s how making a positive request. See how they said exactly specifically what they wanted to do and how 
C: mhmm
P: what they wanted to do was have lunch. And they said how it would make them feel. Right? How did they? What did they say?
C: happy 
P: mhmm. How does that sound?
C: It sounds like too much work
P: Too many words (laugh)? What do you? How would you say it in less words? 
C: I¡¯m happy
P: I am happy¡­ what?
C: to go eat
P: ok
C: With you
P: But are you asking or telling them? 
C: I am just saying it. 
P: yea
C: Could I just say it or I have to tell them? 
P: Well, I think when you want to make request from somebody you have to
C: you have to tell them huh?
P: You have to ask them.
C: ask them
P: mhmmm. Mhmm cause you¡¯re making a request. 
C: oh request. Positive request. 
P: mhmm.
P: So the conversation was pretty flowing. You know the person asked how they were doing and they responded and they said I want you to go to lunch with me and it would make me happy, then the person wanted to do it with them. 
C: Oh so like when you say, like when you told me ¡° how are you doing?¡±
P: mhmm
C: I¡¯m saying, ¡°I¡¯m doing very well thank you, how about yourself?¡± like that?
P: mhmm
C: When you tell me? 
P: mhmm
C: Ohh ok. Cause I just say I am ok. That¡¯s not right? 
P: That¡¯s ok. You can say you¡¯re ok. 
C: I¡¯m ok. Thank you.
P: mhmm
C: how about you?
P: yea, that¡¯s how you keep the conversation going. You ask the other person questions. 
C: okk. 
P: yea
C: I¡¯m doing good. How about you? Thank you.
P: mhmm
C: I am doing good. Thank you. How about you? 
P: uhuh
C: How about yourself. Which one do I use? 
P: how about yourself. That works. Does that feel comfortable? 
C: No, that¡¯s¡­. how about you? Does that sound
P: How about you? That¡¯s ok. Probably more correct, would be how about yourself or how are you doing? 
C: how about yourself
P: or thanks for asking, how are you doing?
C: oh ok. So I say ok, oh how about. Ok, thank you and yourself? Like that?
P: you have to say, how you¡¯re doing. So if I say first ¡°Hi [name], How are you?¡±
C: I¡¯m doing ok, thank you. How about you? 
P: perfect. Yup. Yea perfect.
C: yourself. Yourself, 
P: or you can say how about you?
C: ok. How about you? 
P: I am doing alright. 
C: what the volume, no?
P: The volume, like the voice?
C: yea, is it loud? 
P: mhmm, it¡¯s always good to have good voice tone. 
C: yea they say make it smooth. 
P: mhmm
P: I didn¡¯t get to do that one with you so you have to teach me. 
C: somewhere back there. She knows. 
P: yea ok. Lets go to the next page here. We¡¯re gonna do role play again. Practice making positive requests in a role play where you ask a friend or a family member to go to a movie with you while the other person practices active listening skills. Goals of role play: practice basic communication behaviors, do all three steps of making a positive request skill and remember to tell the person what you want the other person to do. Use the list of positive feelings to label your feelings. Before you practice what do you think about doing the role play? 
C: Give it a try, yea
P: you think you want to give it a try?
C: Yes
P: Okay. Do you think anything else about doing the role play.
C: Are we practicing now or what?
P: I think so. Well, we're going, before we practice we're going to talk about what you think about it first. What do you think about doing the role play. You said you'll give it a try, so are you optimistic about it?
C: what does that mean?
P: Umm. Like you think you'll do well. You think it will go well.
C: Can't be wrong huh?
P: It can't be wrong? what do you mean?
C; Whatever we said as long as you understand it it's okay.
P: Yeah. There's not necessarily a perfect way, but there's always
C: There's a perfect way xxxxxxxxx
P: There can be better ways. Mmm hummm. That's a good way. Communicating. Okay, so rate yourself. How well do you think you'll do?
C: Not sure.
P: you are a 5 there?
C: yes
P: okay. after you practice what do you think about it? alright. so now i have to practice the role play. Ummm. So, we going to practice making positive requests and communication behaviors. Ummm. So you're going to ask me. I'm going to be your friend and you're going to ask me to go to a movie with you and I'll be the active listener. so the goals of the role play is that you want to practice basic communication behaviors. which would have been what in the first session?
C: yeah
P: okay and then you want to do all three steps of the making a positive request. do you remember what those are?
C: Eye contact
P: Hum mmm
C: Say exactly what you would like the person to do.
P: hum mmm
C: Say how it it makes you feel
P: how it would make you feel. okay and then. ummm. use the list of positive symptoms to label your feelings. okay. so you going to ask me to the movie. I¡¯m your friend.
C: okay. would you like to go to a movie with me?
p: that's a good... exactly. but let's start out kind of like this one is. where you have to first have to...
c; so hello. hello. how are you today?
p: i'm good. how are you?
c: i'm doing fine. thanks for asking.
P: hum mmm
C: i'd like you to go to the movies with me. it would make me feel happy.
p: yeah. I'd love to go to the movies with you. that sounds fun. when would like to go?
c: how about yes how about tomorrow? is a good day. say it like that.
p: okay what time tomorrow?
c: about noon probably. about noon.
P: okay. that sounds good. i'll see you tomorrow at noon.
c: right that way [unintelligible]
P; yeah. okay. perfect. so, after you practice would...let's try a practice one more time and you can't look at the paper. you have to try to do it now that we reviewed.
c: hello. how are you? how are you?
P: you feel comfortable saying that?
c; yeah
p: i'm good. how are you?
c; i'm fine. umm doing fine. would you like to go to the movies tomorrow?
p: yeah. I'd like to go to the movies with you. what time would you like to go?
c: let's say i'll pick you up at noon. 
p: okay. that sounds good. we'll go to the movies at noon. 
c: okay. thank you.
P: hum mmm. okay. so, after you practiced, what did you think about it? did it turn out to be better or worse than you thought. 
c; a little better
p: little better. okay. good. and...how well do you think you did? how well did you do?
c: i did about a 7.
P: okay. that's your rating?
c: yes
P: okay. alright. so, let's review. let's see. before we go on to the next page let's review and make sure you did all that. so, practice basic communication behaviors. did you do all three steps of the making positive requests? let's see. you have to maintain eye contact. you did a pretty good job on that. say exactly what you'd like person to do. and say...did you say how it would make you feel?
c: oh no.
p: so one part you forgot
c: yeah
P: but the second part...
c: did you have to say that?
p: not every time necessarily but i think it's important...
c: to show how you feel
P: to yeah to say how you feel
c; oh it's like to break the ice or something. to smile.
p; hum mm
c: but i did feel happy then i put smile instead of saying happy
p: that's true. yeah. it's especially if you're meeting face to face
c: so i just smile. it means you said oh he's happy
p; yeah
c; so i don't have to say it how
p: um hmm
c; or i could say it
P: does it say why it's important on here? under making positive requests. asking someone to do something that would help you achieve your goals and make you feel good. everyone needs to ask others for help and sometime we just want to ask someone to do something fun with us to make us feel good. if we learn how to make positive requests well we are more likely to get others to help us and do fun activities with. so i think the reason why you explain how it makes you feel is then it's more likely to get people to do want to do things with you. if i know that going to the movies with you is going to make you happy then it'll probably make me more willing to go to the movies and make me happy too. 
c: then if not and you won't want to go.
p: well if it's doesn't if it's not going to make you happy and you don't really want to go to
c: pretend it makes me happy
[laughter]
c: yeah that way then i'll [unintelligible] at the move
p: yeah. okay. let's go to 24. role play. making a positive request. Uhh. describe a situation in your life where you want to make a positive request. is there something in your life you can think of that you want to ask somebody something?
c: ummm. why do you keep calling?
p: why do we keep calling?
c: why do they keep calling me? why do some people keep calling? is that a positive request? no?
p: well..
c: positive request, well, still like have to makes things fun. feeling good. how about? should we go to the zoo? something like that?
p: is that something you want to do?
c: yeah
p: yeah? so you want to ask somebody in your life about going to the zoo?
c: yeah
p: okay. 
c: do you think we can go to the zoo? is that how you make it sound? 
p: umm. yeah. so you want to go to the zoo. so i would someone to go to the zoo with me.
c: it would make me feel good.
p: yeah
c; everyone needs something.
p: to the zoo. do you have somebody in mind, specifically?
c: [name]
p: okay. [name]
c: i want to go. make him go.
p: you've already asked him?
c: no. he's so busy he said.
p: and how would you tell him why it would be, why you want him to go?
c: [name] on your day off would like to go to the movies with me?
p: and then how would that make you feel?
c: i'd be real happy if you could go to the zoo with me.
p: yeah. exactly.
c: if we could go to the zoo.
p: mm hmmm. perfect. okay. so practice making a positive request. communication behaviors in the role play of the situation. while the other person practices active listen skills by practicing the situation in class you take advantage of the feedback and support you can get from the trainers and other. it'll be much easier if you practice it in class before trying it out. the goals of the role play are to practice basic communication behaviors, do all three steps of the making positive request skill. remember to say what you want them to do and use the list of positive feelings to label your feelings. before you practice, what do you think about doing the role play?
c: before we do the role play?
p: yeah. what do you think about doing it?
c: i'll give it another shot.
p: i'll give it another shot. okay. and how well do you think you are going to do?
c: probably a 7.
p: okay. that's good. so you are improving. and then, now we are going to practice. i'll be [name] and you are [name].
c: hello [name]. 
p: hi [name]. how are you doing? oh. i'm listening. i'm not suppose to say that.
c: oh
[laughter]
p: let's start over.
c: okay
p: try again
c: hello [name]. 
p: hi [name]
c: hmmm. how are you doing?
p: i'm doing alright. how are you doing?
c: i'm doing fine. i was thinking if you can go to the zoo with me so we can have a good time. 
p: yeah. that sounds pretty good.
c: when do you want me to pick you up.
p: uh, i'm available tomorrow.
c: okay. tomorrow about noon?
p: okay. that sounds good. 
c: okay. thank you.
p: i'll see you tomorrow.
c: okay. thank you.
p: uh huh. good job. that was really good. okay, so did you, let's see, after you practiced, what do you think about it? did it turn out better or worse than you thought it would?
c: better
p: yeah. better. why it turn out, why do you think it turned out better?
c: because i practiced before.
p: because you practiced. good job. okay. and, how well did you do?
c: i think i did a good job.
p: you did. you did great. would you give yourself a 10?
c: yes
p: alright. i'll give you a 10, too. okay. so, now your at-home practice you're going to be able to practice these communication skills. kind of like the last one you did.
c: okay
p: so this one is about making a positive request. okay? so the last one was about expressing positive feelings and this one will be about making a positive request. 
c: so the ....request is different than the feeling?
p: mm hum. expressing positive feelings. i didn't do that last session with you, but when you talked about expressing positive feelings, umm, that's more like telling them how made you feel. right? let's see. let's review it. expressing positive feelings means telling someone that something they did made you feeling good. okay. so positive feeling and then making a positive request is asking somebody to do something with you and then expressing positive feelings. so if i were to say, "[name], I would like you to go to the movies with me." That's my positive request, right? and then if i were to say, after we went to the movies, i would say, "oh, you, uh, thank you for going to the movies with me. it made me feel not lonely and made me feel happy." that would be a positive feeling.
c: ohh
p: a feeling is usually like one word. remember we talked about a while go? happy, sad, glad.
c: hungry
p: hungry could be...
c: oh. positive, huh?
p: well, yeah, but, um, i guess it could be a feeling.
c: maybe it's because it's hungry.
p: well
c: you want something
p: yeah, but that doesn't necessarily make it a negative. a negative would be more like angry. depressed.
c: so sad could be positive, positive.
p: well, if that's really how you are feeling is angry, though, it's okay to express that.
c: but you said it's a positive, though.
p: where? when we're talking about positive, yeah, we're talk about expressing positive feelings. uh huh. but that doesn't always mean you're going to feel positive all the time. sometimes we do have negative feelings and then that's why we, remember like we talked about the red book, we try to figure out what's causing our feelings? how we are thinking is causing us to feel a certain way? so do you get the difference between expressing and making a request? expressing feelings and making a request?
c: yeah
p: so you have to put it all in one conversation. do you want to practice one more time?
c: expressing and making a request.
p: making a positive request?
c: let's see, like, um
p: let's relate it to your goal? what's your goal?
c: my goal is to, to, to learn how to talk
p: mm hum. that's part of it and then it was the main goals was to volunteer which you're doing which is great. i heard you are going a really good job.
c: with the horses
p: yeah. so, let's pretend like you are trying to, um, trying to go bring someone to where you volunteer.
c: okay
p: so let's say i've never been there before and you want me to go.
c: hello.
p: hi [name]
c: how are you?
p: i'm doing good. how are you?
c: i'm doing good. yourself? oh, you all ready said that, hmm?
p: uh hum
c: thank you, um, i'm doing good. is that right?
p: let's start over. we can, we both got confused. try again
c: hello.
p: hi [name].
c: how are you?
p: i'm doing good. how are you?
c: oh, doing good, too. thank you. and i was thinking about inviting you to the horse ranch so we can pet the horses.
p: yeah. what's the horse ranch?
c: it's where you can look at real pretty horses and makes you feel good that you helped them out.
p: oh. okay. that's sounds nice.
c: and now what?
p: you are doing good, but one thing you are missing is how would it make you feel if i went to the horse ranch.
c: oh, i forget that. it would make me feel good if you went with me to see the horses.
p: perfect. yeah. i would like go see the horses with you. that sounds fun.
c: it is. it's real fun. so, how about at noon i'll pick you up?.
p: noon today?
c: tomorrow
p: okay. noon tomorrow. alright. sounds good. i can't wait.
c: okay. thank you.
p: see you tomorrow. yeah. perfect. you did really good. how did that feel? 
c: [laughter] if i said the right thing.
p: you did good. it's kind of nerve racking at first?
c: yeah
p: over time the more you practice you'll get better and better. so, if, um, somebody were to say to you, um, what's the difference between making a positive request and expressing a positive feeling, what's the difference?
c: a feeling is one word. happy positive word. 
p: and how do you express a positive feeling to somebody?
c: oh, like you are happy. yeah. positive is like happy. and...
p: and what about saying, um, you going to the ranch with me made me feel happy. 
c: makes me feel happy.
p: uh huh. that's expressing positive feeling. see how it says on the expressing positive feelings that, um, it means telling someone that something they did made you feel good. so, if somebody, if [name] would go to the zoo with you after you are done with the zoo, how would express the positive feeling with him?
c: i'd say thank you for taking me because i feel good now that we did it. go to the ranch.
p: to the zoo
c: that don't sound right.
p: it doesn't sound right?
c: it's too long and...
p: what about, uh, how else can you express that, a positive feeling, telling himself that he did to make you feel good?
c: [name], thank you. to go with me. make me happy.
p: perfect
c: like that?
p: yeah. how did that feel? 
c: sounds good. yeah.
p: more natural?
c: yeah
p: exactly. so, that's expressing a positive feeling. and then if you hadn't gone to the zoo yet and you were making a positive request.
c: hey, would you like to go to the zoo with me so we can feel great all day? like that?
p: yeah. you can do that. or you can say it would make me happy if you would go to the zoo with me.
c: oh. i can put that in a front...yeah.
p: try it again
c: okay. [name] it would make me feel happy if you could go to the zoo with me today. 
p: perfect
c: okay. that part first then. the happy comes first.
p: it can. it just depends. you could say [name] if you went to the zoo with me today, it would make me feel happy.
c: oh. that way too. i did the first one better. the happy first.
p: okay. you feel comfortable that way?
c: yeah. i did real bad.
p: well, you're getting it. you're doing really good. so, you think you'll be able to do the at-home practice?
c: yup
p: perfect. do you have any questions?
c: no. i just want to do it.
p: you think you're learning a lot?
c: yes.
p: coming along great, huh?
c: yes ma'am.
p: well, good job.
c: okay. i'm going to turn off the recorder.
[recording end]
