Transcript 05
P: How are you doing, dear?
C: Okay. Yeah.
P: you are making your money, huh? Your side money?
C: I got xxxx dollars
P: look it there. Good. So, you got there to the VA? You got up there to La Jolla? Right?
C: when I was at the xxxx on my way back. I ran into one of my girlfriends and she says, "I need some money, [Name]." I gave her $5. That's all I could spare.
P: oh. That was nice.
C: she asked where I was staying and just said a board-and-care.
P: uh huh
C: I don't know where she is staying. She used to live in [location].
P: okay. Okay. You are always helping people, though. So, that's a strength about you.
C: there's this one lady, [Name]. She gave me $20 like a couple of weeks ago. I’m going see, I’m going to wait at, uh, last Sunday I was too late. I'm going to be over at the 7-11 on [location] and hope and pray and i'll be praying that'll see come to me.
P: she'll probably to see you.
C: give me another $20.
P: okay, okay. Cool.
C: so, it’s just like last time, it’s not, this time I will be careful, and I will go to church and I hope she shows up
P: okay. Okay. Do you have her phone number?
C: no, she has mine
P: that is so perfect because that's something we are gonna be talking about today in this next session on how to make a positive request
C: she ran into [Name], or she met [Name] again at 7/11 and brought her one of those foot-long sandwiches and I said [Name] yea yea 
P: cool
C: yea
P: that is cool
C: and she shared that sandwich and I had a good bite of it 
P: yea that's good, I like your nail polish by the way, looking all bright and ready
C: thank you
P: ready for spring 
C: I have a lot of shadow about ten different colors and I don’t have any on though
P: that's ok you were asleep
C: yea I had to do my laundry today and take a shower, they ran out of gloves in my size over there, so I walked over there last night [unintelligible] 
P: so, you work at both [store]?
C: no no, I went over to the shop
P: so, you work at one and shop at the other
C: I also shop there too sometimes
P: okay. You are still going to the clubhouse?
C: mhmm
P: good. What are some activities you guys do at the clubhouse?
C: oh
P: or the ones that you participate in
C: [cough] excuse me, let’s see morning meeting
P: okay
C: woman's meeting
P: okay
C: all woman's meeting, uh let’s see, AA meeting
P: oh, good so you are getting all your AA stuff there too
C: yea, uhm let’s see umm go take care of animals at Petco park
P: wow
C: cats they have cats
P: so, do they take you to Petco park?
C: yup yup
P: fun!!
C: its every Wednesday I believe, and I haven't been there in quite a while, let’s see, they have some groups, let’s see sometimes we watch DVD's and um let’s see we have lunch there
P: right, what’s...
C: free coffee after once o’clock
P: okay okay. Is there a possibility for you guys to run the groups or are the groups run by staff?
C: oh, they are all run by staff, except for [Name] art group, he has his own art group
P: oh cool, [Name], [Name] is a cartoon character [Name] [Name]
C: no, its [Name],
P: [Name]
C: yea [Name]
P: so, he does arts and crafts
C: arts
P: just arts? Paintings
C: drawing
P: are you painter, do you paint?
C: I do, I um um have a little journal
P: I know you write and read and stuff
C: I am shopping list
P: 
C: I have been hoping and praying that she [Name] comes and checks on me
P: mhmm
C: here if I’m not here and someone will say that she is over at 7/11 and she might...
P: now
C: she might come looking over at me at 7/11
P: yea so let’s kinda talk about that, because that’s what we are focusing on in this section, making a positive request
C: request
P: request yea, so [Name] got your phone number 
C: yea
P: but you didn’t get her phone number so how can you request that number? Is that.
C: when I see her again, it’s obvious I will see her cause I work over there
P: okay
C: the thing is that 
P: what is when you like first to see her are you gonna say they can I have your number? 
C: yea
P: or are you gonna say hey um do you mind if I can get your number? Or you know cause sometimes people just because we are friends with them we assume that some people don’t mind when we ask them certain questions so 
C: uhmm
P: maybe and maybe this may not be true, she may be a private person and umm don’t want to give her phone number out
C: yea
P: so, it’s a more way of being nice about it and saying by the way you have my phone number and I was wondering if I can get your phone number
C: mhmm
P: right? So that’s one way you can ask them. But this is a friend, so this will be an easy task too
C: yea. Umm [Name], can I have your number [laughter]
P: [laughter]
C: and bring out my journal and write it in my purse
P: so, so let’s practice that
C:  or um do you have any objectives to did you want to give your phone number?
P: umm I like that
C: that way I don’t mean this money [blah] I would really appreciate it if you can help me and I will go to church more often and 
P: than not, more often than not 
C: yea, that’s what I was thinking more often than not
P: you know what [Name] I like that word, objectives, like do you have any objectives of me getting your number
C: yea, yea
P: objective at, because I want start going to church and you can help me go
C: yea
P: now I’m gonna be the devil’s advocate okay?
C: [laughter] oh no
P: make that request again. Do you have any objectives of, that one I’m [Name] umuhumummm?
C: okay. Um would you mind giving you my number, so I can get a hold of you?
P: no, I have your number I can just call you
C: alright, that sounds good.
P: why would you want my number?
C: are you gonna go to church today?
P: yea, we can go to church, but why would you want my number?
C: well, I can call the warm line but uhmm maybe I can go out and call the warm line to I am having a little bit of problem right now, I ran uhm my work gloves got so old that they are falling apart, and I need to find a Ride Aid or a CVS pharmacy
P: okay
C: so, I can continue
P: I’m gonna stop you really quick
C: okay okay. 
P: that was really easy for you to let it go. 
C: yea
P: you were like yea ok. But is that’s something that you really want?
C: yea.
P: so, you wouldn't want to try to persuade her or?
C: [subject talking to different person]
P: was that a request that you asked?
C: yea
P: and it worked, and you got what you needed right?
C: mhm
P: okay
C: we are all sharing around here
P: I know you guys are all family around here. Is it hard for you to make eye contact with people that you don’t know? Like when you are umm at work and your interacting with costumers and do you make eye contact with them?
C: [cough]
C: yea I do
P: okay good,
C: yea a lot
P: okay good, because you know eye contact it says here maintain when you are talking somebody its kind alike how I am talking to you and I’m like hey [NAME] you know can you and you're not even looking and you're all the way over here and how do I know you're even listening to me?
C: [laughter]
P: right?
C: yea
P: that’s definitely a way to start making requests is to maintain eye contact.
C: yea
P: that’s rude right when somebody is not looking at you 
C: yea
P: and say exactly what the person you want them to do 
C: yea
P: like for instance you hey [Name] you have a cigarette that I can
C: [laughter]
P: you got your needs met [laughter], but you know
C: were were really strict, people here are really open, when we want something we ask like we ask amongst ourselves and 
P: um yea now what about people that are not close to you? 
C: yea well
P: you know when you are put in the community and you are out working and somebody has a nice pair of shoes on
C: cough. Nice pair of what?
P: nice pair of shoes, you like to shop
C: yea
P: so, you go to a persona and say
C: speaking of I got to shop I go to Walmart next week to 
P: okay so
C: these are so worn out
P: okay so let me take that back when you are in the store or when you are in the jack in the box and ordering things
C: yea
P: how do you make a request of you know can I have extra ketchup
C: [laughter]
P: or extra napkins
C: [laughter]
P: you know, do you say ey give me some napkins? Ey give me
C: yea
P: do you say that? Give me?
C: umm no umm
P: how do you make that?
C: can I have some napkins?
P: okay
C: otherwise, what was I thinking, you feel welcome there
P: mhmm
C: [cough] you so you shouldn't take the ketchup or salt [cough] or whatever you are welcome there you are paying for it
P: it’s one of those things 
C: [cough]
P: drink some juice
P: it’s a customer service respect 
C: yea yea it is
P: like I’m a costumer and yes, we are close and we are cool and everything but everybody responds to different things differently and what if it’s a new employee that's never seen you before 
C: yea yea
P: and maybe the other employees you can say give me some salt or give me some and playing around with them and  
C: yea yea
P:  but if they are a new person and they don't know you
C: ye and you know it seems to help when you leave a tip
P: leave a tip. At jack in the box?
C: no, you know at restaurants 
P: oh, yea at restaurants, yes, giving tips specially if they are customer service and its nice and it depends on how they treat them I notice if I am treating somebody rude and they are not gonna respond
C: oh, yea omg yea
P: respond nicely to me and
C: yea uhuh
P and if you are in a restaurant and you have a waitress or a waiter and you ask them for you know whatever water, can I get a glass of water?
C: cough
P: you know I know me I like to make my orders of food
C: cough, excuse me
P: mhm
C: cough
P: you are coughing a little bit more, what is going on with that? Are you getting sick?
C: I didn't have enough to buy sonic gun this and my last check came yesterday and so 
P: you get you get
C: my sonic gum to stop to get to stop smoking tobacco
P: oh okay
C:  mhm
P: do you have an inhaler that you use?
C: no, I don't I asked of another one but I haven't got it
P: do you need a refill of an inhaler?
C: yea
P: from doctor [Name]?
C: yea and I told him and told him, like look at my ankle
P: I know, we are still waiting for the referral for that
C: yea
P: I will let [Name] know about that. Umm
C: you know I was sleeping because what happened was I woke up last night it was about 3 in the morning and I couldn't go back to sleep so I just sat up and tried to finish a book
P: uhuh
C: and um I started reading another one and I um I was just enjoying that, and i've been talking with me and my friend, I have friends here uhuhh client here [Name], we were just talking about reading books and umm sharing smokes and she got a soda and umm [laughter] its [Name], hiii [Name] [Name]
P: uhmm
C: peak a boo, what's it does? [laughter]
P: [laughter]
C: she had a with, what’s that, is that a new worker?
P: I don’t know, I don’t know who that is
C: oh, that's I like the car and I like the way the truck ughhrhrh
P: huh?
C: I like the way the truck
P: oh yea
C: packing away all your things and going to an airport and go away [laughter]
P: [laughter]
P: so, let me see what you wrote in your book
C: alrighty
P: so last week you didn't have any homework assignment because we didn't get to meet with you thoroughly for this ummm did you have any homework assignment before? Do you remember? 
C: uhmm we went over this and I can tell that this is not my writing
P: okay. What page is that?
C: umm they think I am a nice...
P: is that page 7?
C: person
P: is that what you went over with [Name]?
C: yea
P: let me see
C: yea
P: let me see so it says at least once during the week use expressing positive skill
C: but see I don't think 
P: huh?
C: I am thinking back to groups over there
P: oh okay
C: we have one go to walk and do stretches, 
P: mhmm
C: and then there is this one, so someone makes a sentence on a big white board with magic marker and we make words out of the letters of the sentence row after row
P: mhmm
C: after row after row after row
P: oh
C: that's kind of fun
P: that is, that sounds fun
C: during the holidays
P: they celebrate every holiday, right?
C: yea
P: that's cool
C: we close on Christmas day
P: so, we are we
C: and on president’s day
P: happy presidents day we are close too for president’s day. Okay
C: okay. So, where are we gonna start? Over here?
P: so yea we are on session 3. So, you know we are just talking about making positive requests and you know and how to do those things and sometimes it may feel uncomfortable to ask others to do things for us, sometimes we don't want nobody to know that we want help
C: yea
P: it’s a pride thing, it’s a joy thing. Oh, what are they gonna say about me, you know, I don't know maybe it’s a shame thing sometimes you know so you don’t ask for help
C: yea
P: so, for those hard situations and being able to ask for help, like hard requests, you know not with people you are close to and ask I ask, whatever you know
C: mhmm
P: can I have or whatever, it’s not hard to talk to that person, but for those that is hard, these are the steps right here making positive requests skill, maintain eye contact, like we talked about, being able to have that eye contact with that person to let them know hey I need your attention and you need my attention were both paying attention to each other
C: yea
P: were both listening to each other.
C: uhhh I have to I bought some kleenex last night. I have to blow my nose, is it ok if I...
P: oh yea, go ahead, go ahead 
C: i’ll be right back
P: okay. You want the box?
C: uhuhm
P: am I talking too much or too fast?
C: no
P: okay, I just want to check in, we talked about eye contact and this is exactly what you want the person to do just basically making that request of I would like you to help me clean my room, I don’t know, help me can you take me to ride aid to go shopping, can you take me to Walmart, so I can…
C:  would you wash my back?
P: would you wash my back?!
C: that’s a popular one
P: well you know. I um you want somebody?
C: sometimes yea [laughter]
P: well, who do you get to wash your back though?
C: [laughter] you know, depends on who is around
P: depends on who is around. Okay, well can you please wash my back? Or do you mind washing my back? Cause that's kind of a privacy type thing
C: yea I guess
P: and then say how it would make you feel. I would really appreciate it if 
C: ohhhh
P: ohhh my back is clean, okay, 
C: there was a girl at the center and I would wash her back and she loved it. Oh, I wonder
P: yea it felt good to her huh?
C: because nobody had done it until I done it
P: ohhh. You took care of [Name]
C: yea, you took care of her yea I did
P: is that? 
C; oh no yea its terrible
P: I’m sorry about that ankle thing. Is that irritating right now?
C: since I scratched it but at least it’s not hurting, since I took uh a couple of aspirins today, can’t afford the...
P: ohh, Advil works better than Tylenol for you?
C: no, my psychiatrist told me that Aspirin thins the blood and since I have to buy Advil 
P: yea, yea it does
C: but the cost of a bottle of a of a 24 or so in it is like is almost 6 dollars
P: well you know
C: I keep trying to tell me friend [Name]
P: budgeting, budgeting
C: budgeting
P: budgeting, budgeting
C: yea budgeting
P: budgeting PNR every week if that works better for you, alright?
C: [laughter] yea
P: you are a giving and loving person but sometimes you got to take care of yourself and save some of that money for yourself 
C: yea
P: to make sure you have what you need
C: I do have $3 something
P: okay
C: is that the garbage
P: yea here he comes. So alright in this box here is tips on making positive requests.
[garbage truck noise]
C: I can’t hear
P: so, if you would like to fill in the blanks I would like you to blank. I really appreciate it if you would blank. It's very important to me that you help me with blank
C: mhmm
P: so, these are some ways,
[garbage truck noise]
P: these are some positive ways to make those requests, its telling you it’s really important, that you really appreciate it and telling you how it feels and its saying
C: uhuh. [garbage noise] another $20-dollar bill, I would really appreciate it if you would...
P: I like that one
C: it’s really loud [laughter]
P: I know
C: hey the garbage man [laughter]
P: he's cute 
C: [laughter]
P: you're flirting with the trash man but he's cute though [Name]
C: yea yea 
P: [laughter]
C: has a lot of tattoos
P: [laughter]
P: so, I would really appreciate it if you would take me to church again. I like that one
C: thank you
P: okay and then it's very important to me that you help me with
C: it’s very important to me that you help me with uhmmm lets see
P: what would you be asking somebody to help you with
C: it’s very important to me that you help me with ummm keeping in touch
P: ohh
C: [speech drowned out by garbage can]
P: okay that’s a good way to flip it. So, it’s very important to me that you help me with keeping in touch with me, I keeping in touch with me, 
C: yea'
P: it is very important well you say. It is very important that you help keep in touch with me. No, I mean. Uh. Let me read it. It is very important that you help me with keeping in touch with me. May I have your phone number?
C: yea
P: I like it. And you know what I always tell my kids when they're asking for things?
C: huh??
P: please and thank you
C: [laughter] yea yea 
P: please and thank you in anything you make a request with
C; [laughter]
P: I would like for instance, for instance, I would like you to give me another $20 bill please.
C: yea
P: I really appreciate it if you take me to church again. Please
C: yea
P: it's very important to me that you keep me with, keep me with, keeping in touch with me. May I please have your phone number and thank you? And once you get that response and thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, please and thank you are important.
C: um. There are 3 things you can help me with please.
P: okay. I like that. Good.
C: one, two, three. Yeah.
P: okay. So, on the next page...
C: this is all old information. I don't know if she's going to be there, but last time I was, um, too late. I slept to 9:30 and that was...
P: and that was the time she was going to pick you up?
C: I think so.
P: so maybe...
C: that was the time she picked me up the time before.
P: try to plan.
C: huh?
P: plan. So, you know, what time...if you are leaving at 9:30, how long does it take you to get up and if you'll take a shower the night before or get up that morning to take a shower.
C: I have to leave around 9:15.
P: so, you go and meet her down...
C: yeah.
P: okay. So, you'll leave here at 9:15. So, then you probably need to get up about 8:00. 8:30 maybe depending on the time and maybe asking the staff to help you, um, set your alarm or just help you wake up at a certain time.
C: yeah.
P: and those are all asking for positive requests. Can you please help me, can you please wake me up at 8:00 in the morning because I want I want to go to church?
C: yeah.
P: thank you. Right?
C: yeah.
P: so, this next page is talking about role playing.
C: this isn't going to, it's not going to continue on. I need that help so bad I don't know who to ask for some money.
[interrupted by conversation with another resident]
P: so that part right here is just role playing, and we've been doing a couple of role plays already. Um. But, the goal for role play, do you know what role play means? Do you?
C: yeah. I have it right here.
P: oh. What did you right in your book?
C: another inhaler
P: yes, yes. That's you. Yes. That'll be something that you need to practice on. And how would you do that? So I’m doctor [Name]. Hi, [Name].
C: Hi Doctor [Name].
P: how can I help you today? What's going on?
C: I really need another inhaler.
P: another inhaler?
C: um.
P: why? Why do you need another inhaler?
C: it helps me to breathe and, um, if you...and I was using zonic gum.
P: zonic gum is not an inhaler.
C: yeah. Yeah.
P: you need an inhaler?
C: yeah. I need an inhaler. Yeah.
P: okay. Okay. Stop. So, you made your request. You have very good eye contact. Um, you know, my little thing is please, because that's just how I am.
C: uh huh
P: just remember that. Um, but you didn't really say what's the reason for an inhaler.
C: I need to breath.
P: okay. Helps you to breathe. It makes me feel better.
C: yeah
P: um. How do you think you handled that? Rate yourself.
C: good
P: from 1 to 10. 10 being I will succeed. Do great. And the middle is 5. Not sure. And 0 is...
C: an 8
P: an 8? Okay. That's, that's high. So, let's do it again. This time I need you to ask not only for an inhaler but also for the referral for your foot. 
C: hmmm.
P: that's making a request as well. Advocating for yourself.
C: um. What's the next, what else can you do about my ankle doctor. Um. Um. I keep taking showers and scabs keep forming and the skin comes off and then they are forming over and over.
[interrupted by side conversation with another resident]
P: okay. So, you're asking for, what are you asking about for your foot. What do want?
C: um. Um. Um. Maybe, um.
P: basically, we need a referral...
[interrupted by side conversation with another resident]
P: we're asking for a referral for a specialist.
C: I need to get a couple of cigarettes. I’ll be back.
P: yeah, yeah. No worries.
C: I can't help it.
P: no worries, [Name]. Don't worry about it. You're good. We're almost done here.
[session paused when client left]
P: yeah. You asked, you received. How do you feel about it? What's your feelings? You got what you wanted.
C: yeah.
P: feeling good?
C: fine. Do have a light?
P: you just had a lighter in your hand.
C: I did. Oh, it was in my jacket pocket.
P: there you go.
[session paused while client smoked]
C: i’ve passed out so many cigarettes. I can't do it again.
P: well, you're sticking up for yourself. You didn't, you were able to say no.
C: yeah. That time I did.
P: we are almost done here, my dear. So, um, so yeah. So, if this is for doctor [[Name]] we want to include the referral to a specialist for your foot.
C: he was saying I had to go have a CAT scan.
P: is that what he's waiting for? I’m going to have [Name] follow up with it and see what's going on.
C: [Name] showed up with to the [residence] last week. I was over at program.
P: yeah. Yeah, that's what he said. But, um, it's looking nasty.
C: I know.
P: and then you touch it and it's still pussy.
C: yeah
P: we need to figure out what's going on. 
C: i’ve been so much during the daytime that I haven't gotten around to doing my laundry.
P: well, let's get to it then. Right now! Why not? Let's do it now, right? Okay, are you going to stay up for now?
C: uh hum
P: alright. So, your homework for next week is to practice, is to continue asking, uh, to practice making the requests. Positive requests.
C: yeah
P: so, on this page here you can do this page. So, I think you got to do something before. So, fill out the first three boxes now and then your practice will be, uh, these three boxes, these boxes here. The priority communication behavior I’m going to practice. My thoughts and reactions after I practice the skill. So, so for this first box - describe the situation which you're going to practice the skill. Who, who will be there, when will it take place, where will you be, what you will be doing. So, what is, um, the situation where you are going to practice the skill of making a request. Whose it going to be with? [Name], right? Or doctor [Name]?
C: [Name]
P: [Name], okay. 
C: [Name] ...and two kids she keeps with her.
P: okay
C: and I will send and uh
P: that's good. [Name]
C: I don't know what she needs.
P: that's okay. And then when is it going to take place? So, when, when do you anticipate seeing her again?
C: well, this coming Sunday.
P: this coming Sunday.
C: um, at the 7-11.
P: okay, you already put where you will be, at the 7-11 and what will you be doing. So, what are you going to be asking her?
C: um, I need to be [unintelligible] and ask her for, um...
P: what are you doing? Phone number?
C: ask her for her, yeah.
P: phone number
C: for phone number and $20.
P: oh, and $20. Okay.
C: so, what are your thoughts or expectations right now. So, before practicing? What will happen when I practice this skill? What actions am I expecting to get from the other person. So, how will do? How do you think...okay. What. What are you expecting to get from [Name]? What are your thoughts and expectations? Do you feel nervous asking these things? Do you feel hopeful? Do you feel...
C: hopeful
P: okay. What are some, some...
C: I’m pretty positive about it.
P: okay
[00:38:16]  
P: okay. I like that. Write that right here, hopeful and positive.
C: hopeful and positive
P: I like that okay
C: [laughter]
P: and then what are your expectations? Is your expectations for you to get what you are asking for?
C: I think I give myself a ten
P: ohhh I like it. Ooooo ooooo. And let’s see
C: come on down [laughter]
P: exactly just remember what you are going to say and do with practicing these three things right there, eye contact, saying exactly what you want to the person and saying how it would make you feel, priority communication behavior I am going to practice, which one do you think you need to, which communication behavior do you think you need to practice
C: umm all of them
P: okay write all of them then and that is something you can practice within the next week
C: owww
P: get out of here, I think you did pretty well though to be honest with you
C: thank you
P: I think you did awesome, ummm
C: I gotta remember that please and thank you [laughter]
P: yea see you were able to express
C: or excuse me 
P: yes, when people are talking
C: yea you know
P: yea exactly
C: how to fart and how to say excuse me [laughter]
P: well you know that’s not lady like [Name],
C: [laughter]
P: or when your burb
C: yea yea let’s have a soda
P: yes, yes when somebody sneezes you say bless you, 
C: yea yea
P: you say you're welcome
C: yea exactly
P: you know those types of things
C: yea yea so improves uhmm the ahhh umm stability of the relationship improves ummm relationships and you know and instead of yelling and scream like few days ago umm I know she did some I sort of did too [Name] broke a plate and she threw it and it broke
P: ohhhh
C: but she
P: was she mad?
C: something she said she was having internal bleeding
P: ahh okay
 C: I don’t know if it’s true or not I think is in the hospital 
P: okay okay. But yea definitely being nice and respecting the relationship that you know you or not you know you may not have the relationship with the person that you are making a request for but 
C: yea
P: it’s one of those that when people normally give respect they get respect
C: I remember a while ago, 
P: mhmm
C: I was a, I baby sat the children for her and her husband years ago
P: okay
C: yea 
P: cool
P: so, you guys have a good relationship then
C: yea 
P: good, okay, well alright miss [Name], if there is nothing else my dear I’m gonna let you go
C: alrighty
P: it was a pleasure talking to you
C: thank you, same here
P: and you have a good one
